STATUTORY INSTRUMENTS.S.I.
No.
563 of 2015————————IRISH AVIATION AUTHORITY SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT(DRONES) AND ROCKETS ORDER, 20152[563]S.I.
No.
563 of 2015IRISH AVIATION AUTHORITY SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT(DRONES) AND ROCKETS ORDER, 2015The Irish Aviation Authority, pursuant to sections 5, 58, 59, 60, 65 and 67 ofthe Irish Aviation Authority Act, 1993 (No.
29 of 1993) as amended, herebyorders as follows:Short Title and Commencement1.
(1) This Order may be cited as the Irish Aviation Authority (SmallUnmanned Aircraft (Drones) and Rockets) Order, 2015.
(2) This Order shall come into operation on the 21st day of December 2015.Definitions2.
In this Order:‘the Act’ means the Irish Aviation Authority Act, 1993 (No.
29 of 1993), asamended.
‘aerodrome’ means a defined area (including any buildings, installations andequipment) on land or water or on a fixed, fixed off-shore or floating structureintended to be used either wholly or in part for the arrival, departure and surfacemovement of aircraft.
‘aircraft’ means any machine that can derive support in the atmosphere from thereactions of the air other than the reactions of the air against the earth’s surface.
‘air traffic service (ATS)’ is a generic term meaning variously, flight informationservice, alerting service, air traffic advisory service, air traffic control service(area control service, approach control service or aerodrome control service).
‘air traffic services airspace’ mean airspace of defined dimensions, alphabeticallydesignated, within which specific types of flights may operate and for which airtraffic services and rules of operation are specified.
‘aerodrome traffic circuit’ means the specified path to be flown by aircraftoperating in the vicinity of an aerodrome.
‘aerodrome traffic’ means all traffic on the manoeuvring area of an aerodromeand all aircraft flying in the vicinity of an aerodrome.
An aircraft operating inthe vicinity of an aerodrome includes, but is not limited to, aircraft entering orleaving an aerodrome traffic circuit.
‘aerodrome traffic zone’ means an airspace of defined dimensions establishedaround an aerodrome for the protection of aerodrome traffic.
Notice of the making of this Statutory Instrument was published in“Iris Oifigiúil” of 18th December, 2015.
[563] 3‘aerodrome control service’ means air traffic control service for aerodrometraffic.
‘the Authority’ means The Irish Aviation Authority.
‘controlled airspace’ means an airspace of defined dimensions within which airtraffic control service is provided in accordance with the airspace classification.
‘corrective lenses’ means spectacles or contact lenses.
‘fireworks’ a combustible or explosive device for producing a striking display oflight or a loud noise.
‘prohibited area’ means airspace of defined dimensions designated by the Auth-ority above the land areas of the country or territorial waters thereof, withinwhich the flight of aircraft is prohibited by the Authority.
‘restricted area’ means an airspace of defined dimensions designated by theAuthority above the land areas of the State or the territorial waters thereof,within which the flight of aircraft is restricted by the Authority in accordancewith specified conditions.
‘rocket’ any of various simple or complex tubelike devices containing combust-ibles that on being ignited liberate gases whose action propels the tube throughthe air.
‘small unmanned aircraft’ means an unmanned aircraft or a drone having a massof 150 kilogram or less.
‘specific operating permission’ means a written permission from the Authority.
‘unaided visual line of sight’ includes visual line of sight with or without the useof corrective lenses.
‘unmanned aircraft” shall mean an aircraft including a drone without a humanpilot on board.Revocations3.
The Irish Aviation Authority (Rockets and Small Aircraft) Order 2000,(S.I.
No.
25 of 2000) is hereby revoked.Directions4.
The Authority may give directions for the purposes of giving effect to theprovisions of this Order other than written permissions and authorisationsreferred to herein and may exempt persons or operations from the provisionsof this Order subject to such conditions as may be specified in relation to anysuch exemption.
A condition specified in or with a written permission or inrelation to an exemption in a particular case shall have the effect of a directionunder this Order and shall be complied with by the person or persons to whomit applies.
4[563]Continuance in Force of Existing Directions, Permissions and Exemptions5.
Every permission, direction or exemption issued or in force under theappropriate provisions of the Irish Aviation Authority S.I.
No.
25 of 2000(Rockets and Small Aircraft) Order, at the time of the coming into operationof this Order shall continue in force and shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been issued under this Order.Applicability6.
(1) This order shall apply, unless otherwise specified herein, to:(a) small unmanned aircraft (including drones) with a maximum take-offmass of less than or equal to 150 kilograms including equipmentinstalled in or attached to and including cargo.
(b) unmanned rockets exceeding 1.5 kilograms in fuelled mass and withmore than 100 grams of propellant,when such aircraft are operated over the State.
(2) This Order shall not apply to:(a) fireworks used in aerial display where the maximum altitude reachedis less than 400 ft. above ground level at the launch site(s), unlesslaunched within controlled airspace or an aerodrome traffic zone.
(b) to a rocket using not more than 100 grams (0.1 kilogram) of propellantor using a slow burning propellant and made of paper, wood or fran-gible plastic containing no substantial parts and having a mass of nomore than 500 grams (0.5 kilogram) operated in a manner that doesnot create a hazard to persons, property or other aircraft.
and(c) to drones and small unmanned aircraft of less than 1 kilogrammaximum mass less fuel and constructed of wood, paper or frangibleplastic and containing no substantial parts, when operated below 15mabove the ground or water and in a manner that does not create ahazard to persons, property or other aircraft.Small Unmanned Aircraft (Drones)7.
(1) Aircraft subject to this order shall be required to be registered in amanner established by the Authority.
(2) A person who has charge of the operation of a small unmanned aircraftshall not permit that aircraft to be operated:(a) so as to cause a hazard to another aircraft.
or(b) in the vicinity of aircraft manoeuvring in an aerodrome traffic cir-cuit.
or(c) in a negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger life or causedamage to the property of others.
[563] 5(3) Small unmanned aircraft shall give way to manned aircraft.
(4) The authority may define areas within Air Traffic Services airspace, wheresmall unmanned aircraft activity may take place without permission from theAuthority.
(5) A person who has charge of the operation of a small unmanned aircraftwhich has a mass of less than 25 kilograms, without fuel but including anyarticles or equipment installed in or attached to the aircraft and including cargoat the commencement of its flight shall not allow such an aircraft to be flown,unless otherwise permitted by the Authority and subject to such conditions asare required by such permission:(a) within a prohibited area, a restricted area, or controlled airspace.
(b) in Air Traffic Services airspace, other than controlled airspace, within5km of an aerodrome during periods of aircraft operations, unless theaerodrome operator has given permission.
(c) at a distance of less than 30 metres from a person, vessel, vehicle orstructure not under the direct control of the operator.
(d) at a distance of less than 120 metres from an assembly of 12 or morepersons not under the direct control of the operator.
(e) beyond direct unaided visual line of sight and not farther than 300metres from the point of operation.
(f) at a height of more than 120 metres above the ground or water.
(g) permitting or attempting to permit, any article or animal, whether ornot attached to a parachute to be released from that aircraft.
(6) A person who has charge of the operation of a small unmanned aircraftshall not permit such aircraft to be operated from any place unless the aircraftmay take-off and land without undue hazard to persons or property and nothingin this order shall affect the rights and interests of the owner or occupier ofthat place.
(7) A person who has charge of the operation of a small unmanned aircraft,which has a mass of 4 kilograms or more and less than 25 kilograms, withoutfuel but including any articles or equipment installed in or attached to the air-craft and including cargo at the commencement of its flight, or as otherwisedirected by the Authority, shall not allow such an aircraft to be flown unlessthat person has successfully undertaken a course of safety training accepted bythe Authority.
(8) A person who has charge of the operation of a small unmanned aircraftwhich has a mass of 25 kilograms, or more and less than 150 kilograms, withoutfuel but including any articles or equipment installed in or attached to the air-craft and including cargo at the commencement of its flight, shall not allow such6[563]an aircraft to be flown without the permission of the Authority and subject tosuch conditions as are required by such permission.
(9) Permissions issued in accordance with this order may take the form ofSpecific Operating Permission.Rockets8.
(1) A rocket shall not be operated by any person within the State unlessthat person:(a) furnishes such pertinent information as may be required by theAuthority.
(b) obtains permission from the Authority prior to the launching of therocket.
and(c) complies with such conditions as are imposed with that permission.
(2) The Authority may refuse any application for permission to operate arocket and may otherwise prohibit such an operation if it appears that it wouldbe inexpedient in the interest of aviation safety to allow that operation toproceed.Revocation, Limitation, and Suspension of Permissions, Exemptions and Author-isations9.
(1) The Authority may revoke, limit, or suspend any permission, authoris-ation or exemption issued under this Order.Investigations10.
(1) The Authority may:(a) cause such investigations or inspections as it considers appropriate tobe made in respect of an incident or other occurrence which causedor could have caused a hazardous effect on the operation of an air-craft, and may, for the purposes of such investigation or inspection,detain an aircraft, remove and detain any aircraft equipment, takecopies of or extracts from any documents or records (including therecords in any electronic flight data), have access to any place orpremises and obtain from any person such information as may reason-ably be required.
and(b) authorise, permit or delegate a person, persons, an organisation ororganisations to inspect such manuals, procedures, operations or pro-ficiencies it considers necessary forthe safe operation of anunmanned aircraft or the issue of a permission.Power to Prevent Aircraft Flying11.
If it appears to the Authority or to an authorised officer of the companythat a small unmanned aircraft is intended to be or is likely to be flown fromany place within the State and that there would be a contravention of any pro-vision of this Order or a contravention of the Act or any Orders or Directions[563] 7thereunder if that aircraft were to be so flown, the Authority or an authorisedofficer of the company may direct the registered owner, the person who hascharge of that small unmanned aircraft or the person designated by the regis-tered owner or operator thereof to have charge of that aircraft or any otherperson having charge or purporting to have charge of that aircraft, with or with-out the permission of the registered owner or the legitimate operator of thataircraft, that he or she is not to permit or cause the aircraft to make the flightand the Authority or an authorised officer of the company may take such stepsas are necessary to detain that aircraft at a suitable location.Present when the common seal of the Irish Aviation Authority wasaffixed hereto 14 December 2015.ANNE NOLAN,Director.EAMONN BRENNAN,Director.
8[563]EXPLANATORY NOTE(This note is not part of the Order and does not purportto be a legalinterpretation)This Order defines rules for the operation of small unmanned aircraft (with amass of less than 150 kilograms) and the requirements to obtain permissionfrom the Authority before launching a rocket anywhere in the State.BAILE ÁTHA CLIATHARNA FHOILSIÚ AG OIFIG AN tSOLÁTHAIRLe ceannach díreach óFOILSEACHÁIN RIALTAIS,52 FAICHE STIABHNA, BAILE ÁTHA CLIATH 2(Teil: 01 - 6476834 nó 1890 213434.
Fax: 01 - 6476843)nó trí aon díoltóir leabhar.——————DUBLINPUBLISHED BY THE STATIONERY OFFICETo be purchased fromGOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS,52 ST. STEPHEN’S GREEN, DUBLIN 2.
(Tel: 01 - 6476834 or 1890 213434.
Fax: 01 - 6476843)or through any bookseller.——————€2.54Wt.
(B31674).
300.
12/15.
Essentra.
Gr 30-15.
